In this video, we'll talk about a new
that is usually not covered much.
It's called valence.
Simply put Valence
refers to Connectedness.
The more connected data is,
the higher it's valences.
The term valence comes from chemistry.
In chemistry, we talk about core electrons
and valence electrons of an atom.
Valence electrons are in the outer most
shell, have the highest energy level and
are responsible for
bonding with other atoms.
That higher valence results in greater
boding, that is greater connectedness.
This idea is carried over into our
definition of the term valence
in the context of big data.
Data items are often directly
connected to one another.
A city is connected to
the country it belongs to.
Two Facebook users are connected
because they are friends.
An employee is connected
to his work place.
Data could also be indirectly connected.
Two scientists are connected,
because they are both physicists.
For a data collection valence measures
the ratio of actually connected data items
to the possible number of connections
that could occur within the collection.
The most important aspect of valence
is that the data connectivity
increases over time.
The series of network graphs comes from
a social experiment where scientists
attending a conference were asked to meet
other scientists they did not know before.
After several rounds of meetings,
they found new connections
shown by their red edges.
Increase in valence can lead to emergent
group behavior in people networks,
like creation of new groups and coalitions
that have shared values and goals.
A high valence data set is denser.
This makes many regular,
analytic critiques very inefficient.
More complex analytical methods
must be adopted to account for
the increasing density.
More interesting challenges arise due
to the dynamic behavior of the data.
Now there is a need to model and
predict how valence of a connected data
set may change with time and volume.
The dynamic behavior also leads to
the problem of event detection,
such as bursts in the local
cohesion in parts of the data.
And emergent behavior
in the whole data set,
such as increased
polarization in a community.